Namskar Friends welcome back to the mentoring, motivational speaker series.. Today, again we are with international motivational speaker, Simerjeet Singh. Simerjeet welcome. I am always with you not only with you and also with all of them, always Simerjeet ji. You are giving lots of time to the generation who wants to be a motivational trainer.. Yes, They are our future., Absolutely And regularly. We have discussed lots of things. I hope it helped them And we are also start getting replies from them.. So many other question have been asked in the same series.. You remember that last time we end up at very important question. Hope you remember it. I do The most afraid of Which is Q & A round. We had this gentlemen.. He was saying that I am a good speaker. I have control on my topic. I deliver good talks., But I am afraid of Q & A's And the name of this gentlemen was Jaswinder Singh. I think its a great question and everyone hesitates. Some people finish their presentation and run away from the stage as if something is being distributing for free down below. I would like you to take a pause And if audience is appreciating, you accept it wholeheartedly. There is nothing to panic at that time.. You know you have done a wonderful job., So stay there, that your moment of glory and receive the appreciation. Receive that appreciation and applause in a good way. As much as Q & A is concerned, pardeep ji, there is a story which I have already shared before, which is very relevant for this. As well., It is said that there was a nobel laureate in germany who, After getting a nobel prize, was invited by all top universities of germany To tell their students about his discovery., Because it was a scientific technical discovery. So it was a step by step process. A power point presentation was prepared.. His chauffeur ( driver ), take him to different universities.. So today was the turn of Burlin University and, as the story goes on, So his chauffeur come and setup his laptop As soon as he was ready to set in front of an audience his chauffeur thinks of an adventures idea., He said “Sir. I am bored of listening to your same presentation, which is of 21 or 22 slides.. If you don’t mind today, I want to give a presentation at your place. and you seat yourself in the audience, as the driver ” Professor said, “OK son, you have heard it a lot of times and you know it. Well.” Let’s enjoy this let’s. Have this little experiment because chauffeur had heard every presentation very well, although he was bored of them and friends, we can easily cram anything by hearing it twenty-two times and everything was on power point And as he was a nobel laureate, his authority was naturally too high. And audience didn’t had his exact facial recognition that he was the same person.. So presentation goes ahead In between audience, was listening to him with lots of curiosity, chauffeur, told everything so well. And received lots of applause So when, in the end time of Q & A came chauffeur didn’t felt frightened, he was a very intelligent. Person. Audience asked him a very difficult question on that topic. So to handle the situation at that time he said that I came to the university of berlin today, which is a world class institute. I was not expecting such a simple question from this audience.. In Fact, this question is this question: is that simple that my chauffeur, who is sitting in the audience can answer it.? He pointed towards his professor, who is sitting in the front row of the audience as his chauffeur and he answered it., But you don’t have to do this.. I am not suggesting that you guys do this Psychologist calls this phenomenon “chauffeur, knowledge”, Chauffeur. Knowledge means you have the knowledge of any field on the surface., So there is a very good book called “The art of thinking clearly”. The author is rolf dobelli. From “The art of thinking clearly”. I have borrowed this incident, which I have narrated. In which they have talked about chauffeur knowledge. “You have to be the expert of something.”. Absolutely It is good if trainers have a T, shape expertise By T shape. I mean like an alphabet “T” Having a little bit of knowledge of every field and the line which goes down shows having an expertise in one main field.. You must become an expert in something. At the same time, you are not going to become the God of that subject.. It is obvious that there will be a lot of questions and new developments.. Some questions are asked just to put you in a spot to check whether you know the answer or not. In those sort of situations. I want you to be comfortable, saying “I don’t know the answer to that yet.. But if you give me some of your contact details, I will get back to you.'' Right. I think this is a very open and honest approach. Don’t try to fool people. I have said it before and I will repeat it again: After 15-16 years of age, every person creates a sensory alarm When any person tries to fool the other. His sensory alarms start going beep beep beep Don’t try to do that. Be open that you don’t know there is a lot of new developments. And I think people will respect you more for that. Right And that is completely acceptable as long as you are willing and you commit and get back to them. Finish that thing as its very Very important to keep your commitments. So Q and A is a good opportunity to go more deep in your subject. Matter.. However, as a presenter, if you are a keynote speaker or conducting a workshop, it is very important to control it.. You don't want questions coming up. All the time, because in that case your flow will be disrupted., So if it is a one hour, keynote speech, then keep some time after that. If it is a workshop, then keep five ten minutes before every break to recapture summarize and Q and A. I personally feel that, if questions pop up every now and then one or two people will dominate that discussion, All other people will also get harmed. And the Flow of the message you want to convey will also get disrupted Also share with the viewers what you think about it. Sometime between our workshop, the question audience or the participant asks. The answer for that question can be in our coming slides., So we can request them to wait. The answer for the question is already coming, So every question should come at a right time And sometime. Some question are irreverent, so we can handle them according to the situation. And, as you said, its very important to tell your audience that ,'', Your questions are welcome.'' Record them and there is a seperate Q and A round.. I usually do it over tea breaks and coffee breaks in which we can communicate and engage informally and answer their questions.. And if there is a personal question, then we can deal it separately.. Absolutely. You should not allow one single personal concern to dominate the entire discussion. Because see if there are 800 people in your audience, then your one minute is 800 minutes for that organization. Then you are wasting 800 minutes. If you are not to the point or precise.. So hopefully, viewers must have got clarity regarding this and thank you for joining another series of mentoring, motivational speakers in India.. You guys have made it a great success and for that we are thankful to you. and also thankful to Pradeep Ji, who has taken out his precious time to be here today.. Thank you. 