Namaskar those toes fall got ta. A prophecy is mentoring, motivations because kitv's me or aaj to mera saath hain, mr. Simo dissing International motivational speakers Samadhi. Welcome again. Thank you. Thank you very much, so those two upload every series they free and regularly to up coma. But I do it, but the waterfix see I'm log E series below Google about our age, Alok motivational speaker, but natural teams pitch. They could Series me. I'M Logan Abbas, sorry serve all discuss, guillotine or Arjun could show questions linger so much eg do or maybe was never a great to make it Kirk a conscious of Allah. Do no good waarom, heb hamsa pooch again he to let us start with one of the question you miss just an old Mostafavi, hanjo bahar say: hey, do you know any objects of art which I you can take him a big motivational speaker who good or many Applicants, videos, people and I have all my good schools colleges, vagotomy program beaker to come. You can take a third session cooker, Nyssa Pelle, Hammacher nuts IES a home session, Co, bath, rithika, say carp, I'm so to give up, say coffee motivated behave or good. A motivational speaker and topic, I think, which keeps learners at the a castle: preparation kalsekar by Mustafa G stage by John Isabella Columbus on sketching her bar 0, ok Bank arcade to a crane, Parvati, Garko, ratnakara, Wonka G Alaska, my goo-gaa may all the powers of universe Be with you so that your best we come out at that kooky extraneous speaker and coach influencer Jewish of the music. Remember informations in prouder Yoshihara who died? Oh Samia, he contacts me sahih, shabd. God say he. Example, Qasim jnana, a brick mysterious process, a very divine process: bilkul Jesse, ki, auric, art, Keturah, sequentially, Jota, very obscene request. Raggy up Kabhi be x, equals obsessed token enjoy Menon pel eh is born in a doosra 18-page HRP, a punch, be a published sequence. Skipper overwhelmed. Oh dang game, a sequence: Putin again what is bull? Tony girls, a public preparation at Jessica, Raine, oz, Chabad, let go yeah or yeah. He kept me peak performance, key brain scans. We show contain that peak performers in any state. What they do is moon, kisara, hardwood, Pelle, HOTAS bilge, I would select expand. I will rap rap music may hatch Iowa, our artists have were writers and they put in all the efforts. Moon Khajoor inspiration, hey moon, came over Joe influences here, like the rocket was sorry historian. A big mysterious process may work actually partner, while he here or the car blog on a value, and both your best is going to come out. It'S very very important. Two or three things that you let go of that process allow it to be fluid. Only rigid Navona he's, manipulating he about nibble, knichi or a sequence, cartographer up, key couch girl, Tioga topic them, say: juke janga, the key audience queenie padarthas sequence, katha up code. This Shazam never came who a key audience caucus topic: /, inspired car Naya, motivate cognizer leadership, innovation. Whatever your topic is your beauty about Quran. So a little bit clearer, hoga you, your objective will be clear. Everything will fall into place so two or three things that I do personally is drink. Water, make sure you're hydrated enough, so that you don't experience the dry mouth bar both and nervousness ke kaaran is your current up dry mouth experience. Cafe the Pawnee pgbilic caffeine. Co immediately stage on Isabella of white career Coffee LeBaron, have you coffee at least one one and a half hour before so that now it's not caffeine, dehydrate cut the air, so I can say a postman, a giant. Second, I always sit in. I call it meditation. You can call it ice close visualization, but my main point school acre man may speak or a speech. Co, VMR Jessica. They have visual mental rehearsal, so you can do visual mental rehearsal. You can imagine yourself on the stage as you can see Capcom material flawlessly. Some may arrive first about spontaneity, said Johnny, the most physically, a very important tip hedge or my share. My personal experience say about last minute or observation. I build cool new bull nails, but Satan obsessed, okay, opposed Cisco peak in a car by g ki, aapki, best opening hoagie last minute per audience; Mako chal, raha Canseco Chavez. I map with a personal example the atomic say: vamos a talk: 1080 school in the function to Guam but chunk age on stage / ik podium for owatta, Mike Kigali, quwata, Mohan G cookie, hope, the sound wa lakin amo, okay to last min. I'M an observer girl came in opening centre, see at hockey. My name is not Mohan. Sorry, hospira atmosphere, light ogre ogre me up Neos material bit 9 grows to other side, were last minute. Cheese. Mary observation, many annuity. So it's very important that you stay calm, that you stay open to new material or new changes that are happening and that you stay focused at the same time focus not on your sequence point one point two point: three focus on your objective: now clear and objective: Ki speech may kick or DVD South Assad may up Kobe request, karma the object, experienced trainer and up the sheer current immediately audience, ke saamne John s. Apparently they are routinely cool. Maybe he rules follow car town to be junk. We ready to tie bond even a script leakage, a team or copy/paste Keaton on school hockey. Paste Canadian, see Kobe Kobe is a vo-tech. America are equal, so roti origin, Takeda man cuts or oh absolutely. So we have to be enough flexible or NW idea, ROC. Something uneasiness, IMG, so otherwise RP karate dry pattern, P here a yogi or aapki creativity, kata modulation, but I am cheese. A kiwa filter giochi is appropriate, heheh inappropriate here who practices are developed on a ballet master faso object me practice, Caray, beginning my career, making opportunities maturing, Kaleem halima function, Laura and Jim, a a Lions Club me or our rotary maharaja, wherever it is, go and grab It for the sake of your own experience, so same cooking experience, a kasi, intuitive cheese head, jockey, intuitions, yup, coppola tell duygu. This thing is going to work and this thing is not going to work. They'Ll call what modular crack is illogical plans of al-kitab amil yoga or as a crane located, engage enemies of Alta media ki aapki, you up, ninja tips, team K, comma a chimera, be a hit or ups a request, be her key. If you have questions the email id is in the description box below, which is due by at symmetry Singh Kham, send us your questions. We don't promise you give her so al kitab/the a jogger, but we will selectively pick those questions. Sso vaalu trying a Joe homiletic eachother Toluca Khamenei Valley once again, thank you for watching and making this series successful. 