Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to another episode of the beginner's mind series. This particular episode is focused on helping you improve your communication skills, your communication skills in a cross-cultural setting and your spoken english we've had a lot of queries regarding this subject and one of the videos which we produced got a great response, which was you know, i Mean it wasn't done by us intentionally, we did not decide that we wanted to do a video on that topic. We experiment, as we usually do with the coach on campus series and a lot of you. Subscribers must already be familiar with the fact that this particular one on developing your communication skills has almost exceeded 10 million views, so not in our wildest imagination, we could have ever thought that was that was possible um and since my mission, always our mission always has Been to serve the community, whether it's young students in universities, across here in india or virtually to people in india, pakistan, sri lanka, nepal, other parts of the world - it has been our vision. It'S been our intention to help you with the resources that you need to succeed in your personal and professional lives, and a lot of it has had to do with the confidence to articulate your ideas well, to be able to interact with people from different parts of The world and to learn from them and to share your message with them, and with that in mind, we have another series to have another episode to help. You improve your communication skills and to help you learn and exchange ideas with the best and the brightest in the world. I have a couple of requests before i introduce our special guest today, from whom you're going to learn a lot and therefore the extra phases and couple of pointers to help. You learn better treat this as a master class in improving your communication skills. If you will please, i have three important things to share with you number one. Please understand: learning depends upon your state of mind, so take a few moments if you would like to take a deep breath in and just make sure you're centered and you're balanced, and you also have all the tools available to you to take notes. If you like, you know, pen and paper, and you can pause the video whenever you like and begin it um once again from wherever you left. As i said again, as i said before, i say again treat this as a master class in improving your communication skills. So ensure that you're in the right state of mind, ensure you're in a peaceful quiet location, ensure you have a pen and paper handy number. Two, please understand, learning improves when you're engaged when you're involved in the discussion. So here's what i will ask you to do. Your top takeaways from different questions that i will ask our special guest today. Can you please share them in the comments section below right, so my top takeaways from overcoming the fear of speaking a foreign language are one two and three. If you could share those that'll be great, it helps us to start a conversation in the comments section, as well as to help reinforce the key learning points for all of you. Viewers out there number three. Please learn this material with the intention of teaching it to someone else. This is one of the most powerful exercises i've done in many of my workshops. I say to people towards the end of this. If there's a table of 10, i usually give them a little challenge and i'm throwing that challenge across to you as well. If you accept it, you can type in challenge accepted, and this is my challenge to you towards the end of my workshops. I ask one among the ten on a table of ten to be a volunteer and to be the coach or the trainer for that particular table. That person will come at the six o'clock position of that table and will be given three to five minutes to you know, be be the coach or be the trainer for that particular group of people and to reinforce and summarize the key learning points i have found. The people who volunteer for this activity are way more engaged than the others, and they do a great job at capturing the summary and since peer-to-peer learning is happening, and i already seen a lot of the the conversations in the comments section. A lot of you are helping each other out, there's like a little community building it on our youtube channel, which i really like. So those were the three little instructions. I hope you will follow in order to improve your learning outcomes uh for this episode here today. Let me now introduce our special guest today, mr keith o'hare, who has worked in education internationally for over 20 years. He started as a teacher in france in italy and and moved on to spain. Then, in 2002 he became a director of studies for a school in china, so a lot of international experience there. If you can see france, italy, spain and china from 2004 to 2017 keith worked with the british council in asia as a teacher trainer in china. As a project manager in china, as a deputy director of english in taiwan and a director of english education programs in malaysia, he's currently based out of sunny spain and now runs the very popular website called keith speaking academy. We'Ll share the link in the description and a youtube channel called english speaking success. I love his videos, they're simple, actionable and very engaging. He also offers online courses to students who want to improve their spoken english. His main focus. His main focus is helping students worldwide. All of you who are tuning in right now to prepare for the ielts exam, so they can get the score that they need and live out their dreams, whether it's immigration, career success, study abroad or promotion, keith you're welcome to the show wow. Thank you very much. Simajid um absolute pleasure to be here: oh it's an honor to be here with you. Thank you very, very much for inviting me. I'M very excited to be here to share some ideas. It'S a pleasure, keith and i'd like to say a big. Thank you. You'Ve been very generous, we approached you at a very short notice. You said yes and we're so excited to have you here with your vast experience and some very popular videos, um on on the subject of improving communication skills in english language. Thank you. It'S an absolute pleasure um, let's jump right into it, the into the subject matter, shall we yeah uh. In my experience, keith e? Let'S let if i talk about the indian subcontinent, we've had a lot of engineers. We produce a lot of doctors, r d professionals, i.t professionals. We export a lot of talent across the world. Some of the ceos of the top companies in in the silicon valley happen to be of indian origin, so there is no shortage of technical skills, technical expertise. Here in the indian subcontinent, where a lot of our young viewers who are highly interested in the subject they come from, we are a culture also very high on agreeability and getting along, and i think that sort of um plays a little factor there. What happens the end outcome? Is we have a a generation of people a lot of engineers, a lot of technically proficient people who are very good on the technical stuff, but somehow lack the confidence or the ability or the skill or the will and we'll talk. All the us, or talk about all the aspects of this to present their ideas well in in a way that they feel that they're making an impact. I'D like to you know start with your views on this subject. How can people who have great ideas so there's not a shortage of ideas, but there is some gap in between there. How can they cover this gap and unleash their full potential? Wow. That'S a really really interesting question um and i totally agree. There'S a lot of people, as you say, from from the indian and and from from asia who are working in the west or in america and england, australia and struggle with communication skills um, and i think it's a real real challenge. I think, on the one hand, it's partly to do with confidence in their own english, but it may also be to do with their communication ability and how well they communicate that the two are connected, but they're a bit different right. I think, with you know, with english skills um, some people struggle in their their self belief in really being confident that they can speak english well, and they can speak well enough to communicate, and i guess i think sometimes this comes from education and from schooling and The way we're taught at school in many many countries learning a language is seen from as a very academic subject, and this is the way you do it, and many people get this mindset that i you know i wasn't very good at languages at school. I can't study - i i don't know how to speak english. I had the same issue with french right at school. I mean interesting thing with me when i was learning french at school, when i did the the o levels kind of at the middle stage. I got. I got a c which was a very low level and i wanted to go on to study french uh for a level in university, and my teachers said. Ah really i mean you're, not very good at french. Why don't you do maths because you're much better at maths - and i i lost confidence because of because of that and - and i guess realizing also that the way that languages are taught um, not everybody learns languages in that way right, i went on to learn french At university and through different experiences, i discovered you can learn languages in different ways and just because you weren't good at school doesn't mean you can't be successful, learning language beyond school, right um. So i i think it's yeah, it's. As you often said it's it's. The mindset having the right mindset and belief in your ability to do it, um, if you think you know that you can't study and learn a language. It'S probably going to be true right, whereas if you start thinking well, i can, and i'm i'm able to do this, then you can start making progress. That makes a lot of sense, because what you just mentioned about um, you know the education or the labels or how well you've done in school and use you convert them into self-fulfilling beliefs, self-fulfilling prophecies. It'S you who makes that statement saying. Oh, i probably didn't. Learn english early enough in order to be proficient now and therefore i can never do it uh. That'S very well said, and i you know throughout all the videos and all the other motivational stuff that we produced and it's not just about learning a new language. Any self uh limiting belief can be and should be challenged. I think that's the greatest project you'll ever undertake in self transformation, communication skills or learning a new new language, so great point there keith, and what i'll urge our viewers to do is maybe sit down with pen and paper and try to identify what are the limiting Beliefs, what is your enemy? Who are you fighting against? As you just mentioned, your own example uh. Perhaps a off-the-cuff remark by a teacher who said you're - probably not good at that, so you should try. This are you holding on to that or is it a bad test score or is it something else once you know it? You can challenge that, and that should be, and that brings me to a very important question. Keith, i've always believed mindset is the first first step. You know i spent a lot of time visualizing my keynote speeches before i go on stage. I can see myself in my mind's eye, interacting with the audience having a good time it's flowing effortlessly. You know what i wanted to convey is is being received well by the audience and and that helps that helps in not in the academic way. You know it's not. I suddenly, but sometimes i do get insights also, but it prepares me and sort of calms me down. You know. So it's a very, very good exercise and i feel what that exercise helps me do is overcome. The mindset, challenges and you've spent a lot of time. Teaching english to non-native speakers across the world, you know 20 more than 20 years: france, italy, spain and china. Have you identified like a list of limiting beliefs or maybe mindset, challenges that students must overcome first before they go about learning the language or communication skills? Yes, oh yes for sure, and i i think the number one is it's probably epitomized by a student i had in france who said to me keith. I need to learn english, i'm ready to work as hard as i have to. Even if i hate all the grammar, i'm going to learn english, nobody laughs and i thought hang on, even though you hate all the grammar. It'S like the mindset was that english is hard. It'S difficult. It'S boring it's a headache, but i'll push through right, no pain. No gain - and i think that is, is not nonsense, but it's it's not true. It'S the wrong mindset, it's the wrong strategy, it's the wrong strategy and i'm a big big believer, and i and i push this with my teaching and um with my videos - is that learning english can be fun and not only can it be fun, but it should Be fun and the more that you enjoy your learning, the better you will learn and there's a lot of research. On that i mean. There'S the the effective feel the effective filter by stephen krashen, and he talks about the more stressful. You are the more your learning goes down because the effect goes down um, but if you are relaxed, you enjoy learning more and i i think that's the key. The key mindset is to think actually i can enjoy this um and therefore i'm able to learn better right and i do notice. A lot of students say that to me that they they've suddenly had a a learning changing, maybe not a life changing, but a learning. Changing moment where they go wow, i actually enjoy learning english with you and that's it. That'S great. That'S the first great thing right, so i think that that's the one of the first mindsets right is to to enjoy it yeah absolutely, rather than, as you rightly said, to consider it a really uphill task. It'S like maybe going to the gym early on a very cold morning, and you know the best part about doing that is getting up at 7am and deciding not to go to the gym. That'S that's always the best part of is because yeah um, and also i mean people say like when you go to the gym. The best part is is, after you've finished the gym after you've finished the hard work you feel better and again, i think it's maybe an unfair analogy for for learning languages. I i think it's not that once you've learned english you'll be good, it's the process. It'S the journey of linking learning, which is exciting um and once you get into that that this is not just a means to an end. This is what i'm doing it's the process, which is great. Then it changes your way of thinking as well. Absolutely this variety of resources available to make it fun. You know you could use netflix, so you could read or you could write or you could interact with people from across the world. Thanks to all these digital tools that we have. You know you could talk to native english speakers and learn from them or have your own little group, you know, and to exchange information that you have so there's a lot of resources now available for people to make it fun and interesting, as opposed to maybe 20 Years ago, when was more theoretical academic in nature, that's one of the things that came to my mind and you know the our our podcast keith is titled the beginner's mind, and this comes from the japanese philosophy called shoshen in in zen. They talk about, and one of the proverbs goes something like this. In the expert's mind, there are only a few possibilities. In the beginner's mind, there are many um, and i love that i've been driven by that personally, and i think the same, if you perhaps you'll agree with me, is applicable to learning english as well, is that there are many ways that might work for you and Go with those multiple possibilities and explore which one works the best, i'm not sure. Perhaps you might have seen this movie. It was around this young girl preparing for the spelling bee championship. She has a coach who helps her make that breakthrough. I can't remember the name. Maybe if our viewers are familiar, let us know help me remind me in the in the comments section, but what he helps keith this this young little girl to do is she was an avid dancer as well. So the coach identifies this learning style and he gets her to memorize these words while she's dancing or moving instead of sitting and she would. He would even encourage her to do the same while she's on stage and you know, is the is the same end destination. But a different process, as you rightly said, and the one that she enjoyed. So thank you so much for that. That'S correct, yeah yeah! No, i totally agree. A very good teacher will identify the different learning styles of the student and be able to adapt to that student, which is the great thing of having a a teacher directly help you um, but i love the idea of the shoshone as well. The idea that you, you should be open to every moment being a new moment right, and i think that helps break break. The mindset that i can't learn, english, that, if you think well every moment, is an opportunity to learn. What'S gone in the past doesn't mean that's going to go in the future right every moment is, is a new moment to try so being open. I think yeah, it's indeed indeed and um. I love what you talked about um when when we are stressed, we don't learn as much. I noticed that - and this is um for everybody who's tuning into this conversation right now, when you're learning try to be as relaxed as possible, try to be in the moment. Um they have a name for it. It'S called deep work. Also, i'm currently reading that book, but very very powerful philosophy. You know switch off your social media, remove the distractions and then immerse yourself into it, and that's worked well when you're not stressed. I practice this while interviewing people keith, and i try to in most many of my recent ones. I usually try to just maybe close my eyes and take all that information in as opposed to earlier. The next question would be running in my head as an outcome. What would happen is i was there, but i was not fully there so now i just pause and uh absorb it and so not being stressed about what's coming next next helps you fully absorb what's happening in the moment, so it improves your overall efficiency. I i totally agree it's it's a great skill that you have. I i'm still developing that skill um. I think it's such a valuable one and it's valuable for interviews when, for example, the ielts test or for a job interview to be able to be in the moment rather than planning. Your prepared speech is a very very it's a it's a challenging skill, but it's such a valuable one. It'S worth practicing yeah because then you're then you're dynamic. You actually listen to what is being said, and you respond with at the moment, not what you already planned before and your brain is not working overtime. So yeah, yes, yeah, i'd love to talk about the the fears. Why is there a huge fear around? I understand? Well, you know, learning a new skill. We have this uncertainty of what the outcome is going to be all about, but non-native speakers of the english language, as well as people who feel they need to improve their communication skills. There'S a lot of fears around the subject. Read one interesting survey, which said fear of public speaking is is above on many surveys, ahead of the fear of death itself. So yes, which technically translates out some people would rather be dead than be on a stage in front of a group of people. You know being vulnerable and sharing their thoughts. Why is this there's a huge fear around the subject and how have you sort of calmed this fear down in your students over the years yeah? Well, imagine if the fear of public speaking imagine the fear of public speaking in a foreign language. That'S probably like dying twice, maybe for something. I i think that fear from my experience as a student and from teaching other students, one of the biggest fears, is around looking stupid by making mistakes. So i'm going to speak, i'm going to make mistakes. People will think i'm stupid that i will feel stupid and be embarrassed and being embarrassed publicly um is is very damaging for people, and so making mistakes is one of the the biggest fears right and students struggle and try to speak perfectly and because they're doing that, Their fluency drops and their communication disappears right because they're spending so much time, thinking, preposition, plus the adjective and and then they're not getting their idea right right. I i think so. The the really important thing to understand about mistakes in language learning is that they are big gifts presents to us. They help us they're an essential part of the learning process. If you're not making mistakes, you're, not learning simple. As that, so you you need to learn, to accept you're, going to make mistakes and that when mistakes come it's absolutely fine, you can learn from them. If you get feedback in some way to tell you what the mistake is, you can learn from it and improve right, but we're all going to make mistakes right. It'S like in business, you're going to fail. You are going to fail at times, um and and just accept that that will happen and it's a positive thing. Mistakes are not failures, they're growing opportunities. So i think, if you can make friends with mistakes, then it helps overcome that fear that i'm going to make mistakes right, um and the fear of looking stupid is a psychological thing. You know you're you're, preempting you're, second, guessing that the audience out there, whoever it is even if it's a a manager who's from america, is going to think i'm stupid, because i don't speak as good as as well as a native speaker. Don'T second guess people i guarantee 90 of those people will not be thinking that they'll be thinking the opposite, actually he's like wow you're, trying really hard. I want you to be successful with your english, yeah um, so don't second-guess what people will be thinking of and about you um, because it's normally wrong. I think in my experience yeah it usually is usually is, do you know um? I deeply admired this um gentleman. Um he he passed away a couple of years, uh back dr wayne dyer from the us spiritual author and i used to listen to a lot of his talks before going to sleep um in 2007 2008. I had this habit uh those ipods that came back in the day with the actual hard disk, the really heavy ones. So i had one of those i had all his talks downloaded and he would say he said something very interesting in one of his talks. He said if there's a thousand people in the auditorium and um once i finish my talk, they're walking away with a thousand different opinions, that's a thousand different opinions about what i said and none of them. Could you know it's possible that no one is true. None of them is true right, so for me to carry that burden of those 1000 opinions. Uh is a very heavy burden to carry so i think we need to liberate ourselves from that, and what you rightly said is the more we try to be perfect um. Our brain, we sort of use all this processing ability of the brain to for perfection and therefore speed suffers ideas, suffer content, suffers knowledge suffers, i've seen a lot of professors from different parts of the world, not just india from you know other parts of europe and Other places where english is not the first language and they perhaps even till date they struggle with great english. You know grammatically correct english, however, because the focus is not on getting it. 100 right. The focus is not showing off his linguistic ability. The ideas shine through and in some of those some domains - maybe that's more important than great grammar, for example right so without it yeah, and i think it's really important for youngsters, especially to get this fear of being judged away off their shoulders and you'll feel you're. So much lighter and, as you rightly said, what you're thinking that the other person is thinking about you. Perhaps it's your own imagination. So you need to remove that and just focus on expressing what you want to say and with time in practice and that's what happened with my learning curve with time in practice, perhaps you say it in a few words with brevity: perhaps you say it more effectively And it improves the only way to overcome this fear. In my case, and from my personal experience has been to put myself more and more into situations where i'm stretched way outside my comfort zone way outside my comfort zone and that strengthens that muscle. Your thoughts on that keith yeah you've been in a lot of multicultural, and i i'm i i partly agree in that. What i i do is i i nudge students to go a little bit beyond their comfort zone. Um. I think with language not not to go too far outside because they may they may drown - or maybe i'm too overprotective, but to to push them to go a little bit outside their comfort zone to to try and do little challenges whatever they are. You know if you're um going abroad or even if you're not abroad, to go and ask a question to be at a conference and ask a question. Put your hand up and ask the question um to go and speak to somebody at a party and just introduce yourself little things that you wouldn't normally do and just try and do them and then and then see what happens and see how you feel afterwards and Most times, people feel great after they've done that, even though it didn't go as they thought it went as they thought it or they wanted it to um. It doesn't matter too much, they feel very, very good after it, and - and that reminds me, i think, one of the things that i learned as a presenter when i had to do a lot of presentations when i began presenting um education projects to government officials and And and i used to get nervous about making mistakes in the presentation and then my mentor or my boss said to me he said you know the people watching you. They had no idea what your script was. They didn't know what you wanted to say. They just received what you said right and that mistake, actually they didn't know they weren't aware and being able to kind of release your script and and just deliver well. That was a big change, a big changing moment. For me i thought, oh, my god, that's true. They don't know what i wanted to say, so it doesn't matter yeah, so it's being in the moment. This is, i love that i can completely relate with that, because um there was a time when i would prepare for my keynotes, and i knew you know my top focus area number one number two number three and which was very helpful by the way to keep The entire 45-60 minute presentation on track and not to go off track, but stories or anecdotes or audience interaction tends to happen with a large audience. You can easily go off track uh. However, at the same time, i had to learn to release that uh, the sequence and you know i got ta say and in point one. I have to say these three things. You know you don't have to say it all and the there's so many ideas that come once you're off stage i wish i could have, and and that means a lot remains to be said for the next time, so you're not completely bored with the with the Next presentation yeah, so it's all a learning process. Um i've picked some of the top mindset, i wouldn't say mindset blocks or maybe learning hurdles that a lot of youngsters usually leave in the comments section on our channel and i'd love to hear your views on them. Number one on on that list is: can i still learn a new language at 2122 um? I haven't learned english as a language in school, but now at my workplace it's really important that particular guy or that person who came at uh. He or she did not have as much experience as i did but speaks english fluently and therefore is moving ahead. Can i still learn? Is you know what are your thoughts on that keith? Oh, my god, 22. That'S so young seriously awesome my okay personal examples. My father began learning spanish at 60 age 60, and he did that because at the time i was living in spain and he was coming visiting and he wanted to learn how to communicate. He he got up to an a2 b1 level. At the time i began. Learning chinese at 30. - oh wow um - and i you know i can speak at an intermediate level. I did the hsk chinese exam official exams. Of course you can. Of course you can. Is the absolute answer um it's true to some extent that our ability to learn language diminishes as we get older, because our memory is is weaker and our network of thinking is more hardwired. But i think, especially if you already speak one or two languages, adding extra languages gets easier, whatever the age - and i think one of the great benefits of being in india is that many many people are at least bilingual right. They speak dialects or other languages, unlike the british who are notoriously monolingual and rubbish at languages, because we don't have that experience so much generalizing a bit. So i think yeah. The answer is absolutely yes, you can and there's there's actually there's a lot of research about this - that there's a fallacy. Um and we've tried to explain this to governments, but they refuse to listen, there's a fallacy that it's easier to learn a foreign language. If you begin a primary school level at age, six, okay, um, rather than beginning at age 12 at secondary school, in all the research it's shown when students who begin learning a language at age 12 in secondary school after two years, they have already caught up to The same level as those who began at age - six, oh wow and - and the reason is because those in primary school because they're not they're, not immersed 100 in the language, they only get three or four hours a week. It makes no difference, it doesn't work right. Um, it only works if you're 100 emerged in the in the language from a young age, otherwise start later start at age 12, and you can still become extremely proficient by the age of 20. start at 20. You can become advanced even and absolutely that's great news that great that's great news for everybody, who's thinking. Oh you know. Perhaps i've missed that particular golden. You know time to start, and i love what you said. Would you then be? Would it be correct to assume that immersion is one of the keys in learning well learning quickly? By and large, yes, i mean it does depend on the learning style and each individual person um. I am a fan of immersion learning. I think it's very, very beneficial. Um because it takes away translation, it encourages you to think in the language and i think that's incredibly valuable, but it doesn't suit everybody and you don't have to be immersed to learn the language um. But yes, i think there is research that it is beneficial. This whole um i've seen a lot of videos around this and um emphasis on being able to think in that language before you speak well, yeah, what's the research on that? What are your views on that? How important is that and how? How? What are your top tips of how people can practice it thinking yeah thinking in the language um? I think it is. I think it's very, very important um to do that from an early stage to try and think in the language, because translation slows you down right, especially as a beginner and an intermediate level once you're at an advanced level, then translation can help. And you know, translation is a skill. It'S a very highly trained skill. People study, translation right, but if you're beginning in a language or an intermediate level, getting away from translation is really important and so learning to think in the language i think, is very very important because languages are different and if you translate word for word, you're going To misunderstand idioms, phrasal, verbs, collocations right, the rules of the language are different right. I think tips to to do that. Yes, there are it's one of the most popular videos on youtube right. How to think in english. I'Ve seen lots of youtubers do that right, um and some very good and tips and advice there uh it's it's harder than you think i i don't think it's something you can do just by watching a video. I think it does take a lot. A lot of practice um, but i mean there are simple steps you can take, for example, using a monolingual dictionary right, that's something i did when i was learning spanish and it helped me enormously, not as a beginner but a bit beyond beginner, okay, um. The other thing yes, is absolutely to immerse yourself in in films in conversations with with people of that language, if possible, um. So if you can, i mean nowadays, as you said, you can get on the internet. You can go to a website like speakwiz, where you can join groups of people for free speaking, english, um and you're, not with people of your own nationality, so you're not translating and using your own language you're just using english. Then then, that helps as well practicing with that um yeah. There are other techniques you can do think in english. I'Ve got a whole video on it. If you want to go much sure we'll share the link for that, i think for people yeah. Yes, yes, we're sure we'll do that um the well! I just want to dwell on this a little bit what you just said about uh learning, to think in english and what worked really well for me when i rewinded back to my own school days, was a lot of self-talk in that language. So if you yeah don't do it in public, though guys so yeah self-talk is best done when you're alone and in private. So if you would have a conversation with yourself, you learned something you saw something you heard something you read something reading in particular was very useful because i'm then doing the scenario building inside my head from what i've ever learned. I try to construct an image. I'M more a visual person, so that would really help if i've read the text and i'm creating that scene in my head and then, if in my alone time in my me time, if i could during that time, if i could do my, i could talk about What i just learned to myself out aloud that would help improve things, and perhaps you know guys give it a try, see how, if that works for you, let us know self talk in the language that you're trying to learn in english, for instance, that is the Subject of our discussion here today really helpful um one of the next objections, or you know, points of confusion for youngsters who are starting on this journey of learning english and improving their communication skills is where do i start? There'S a lot of information on the internet. There'S so many videos, a lot of courses um, so there's actually a challenge of having too much um so keith. Would you help us narrow down to what might be the first two or three steps for somebody who's trying to start this journey yeah starting the journey? I guess well, the the first thing you should do is decide your goal. What you want to achieve right, do you want to learn english just to go on holiday in the country and get by? Do you want to study in that language and therefore have a higher level um? Do you want to do a phd in that language? I mean: what's your goal with learning english and be clear, and then that can help you decide where to go. I think, if you're a beginner starting out in a language, where do you start, i would strongly recommend getting a teacher or a tutor somebody who can guide you basically um that i think it's unfortunate that nowadays with social media, we're bombarded with a lot of myths And confusion about language learning, um and distractions and people, you know, there's a lot of talks about tips and tricks and secrets right. Shotguns and people are clicking and shortcuts we're in the hack culture as they call it everyone's looking for a fix, a quick fix right. The truth, the truth is the reality is, i i think is that if you want to go from being a beginner to an intermediate, there are very simple steps to follow. To follow the kind of language you need to learn the skills you need to develop any reputable course um, and there are plenty out there, but looking for a name, that's reputable whether it's i don't know berlitz british council rosetta stone any any kind of reputable course. It is just a matter of following the course, because you can't get around the fact you need to learn a certain amount of language, certain number of words, a certain number of expressions and to be able to have the skills to the four skills of reading. Listening. Writing and speaking right and to develop all of those. So i think it's trying to avoid this world of secrets and tips and tricks and say right. I need to actually just follow this course um, but do it if, if you can be engaged with other people, i mean i'm a big fan of going to classes, because when, when i i learned spanish and chinese, i went to class with several other people in The class that motivation that interaction with other students who are going on the same journey is so helpful right. They can support you. You can share your frustration. You can share your whatever you're feeling at the time um and you can practice with them right. So i think that's really that motivation is so important um, so maybe having the the attitude of being in the for the long haul, i'm going to study for a long time, sure um having a tutor and a guide if possible and a clear goal and motivation. I think are all important yeah. Well, sir, thank you, and i completely agree with that - this culture of hacks and try this and we've had on youtube um, especially in the indian continent. This has become a very lucrative thing. If you publish a video which says you know, do this and you'll be more fluent in seven days and that's right there, millions of views right there and a lot of people fall for it, just as they fall for quick weight, loss techniques or other things like That but it doesn't happen overnight um and there are strategies that could help speed things up for you, but, as keith rightly said, prepare to be in it for the long haul guys, which means you probably might not see the results immediately. There'S a great book which is not directly connected to learning english, but is um connected to achieving long-term goals, it's atomic habits by james, clear yeah. I love james, clear and it's nice nice, a very actionable practical things there and - and i love what he i think he mentioned something about lead measures and lagging measures. So the lead measure is what you're doing today. What the inputs are. The lagging measures are the outcomes if you're looking only at the outcomes and not taking the not following the lead measures, you will end up with zero outcome sometime from now, which means, although as much as outcomes, are exciting as much as improvement. The end results are exciting, but if you just stick to those - and you focus exclusively on those, you would have you sort of lost focus on what you still can need to continue doing today in order to produce those results effectively, so uh yeah, it could be. Do the things that which which give you the return in the long run, um um yeah, does that make you know your possible not just a short run as well yeah, and i think that ties in with also the idea of enjoying your learning, if you're enjoying Your learning, it's you're, not thinking about getting it out of the way and getting to the end as quickly as possible, you're actually wanting to engage in long-term learning, because it's very enjoyable to do right and the outcomes after that. For my students, the outcomes are not just passing the test: they're being able to communicate effectively abroad, living a more richer life understanding other cultures. You know eventually world peace i mean it goes on and on. Indeed, it begins with inner peace obvious the journey begins within. Yes, yeah yeah help me out keith with a little comparison in in in countries where english is not the first language, so india uh for example. Right now we the learning um techniques. The focus is originally on the rules on the grammar, the vocabulary, the spelling etc. Is the method different i'm assuming, because when i wasn't taught the words, the spelling, the grammar or the rules of my mother tongue, which happens to be punjabi in the national language hindi, which i'm fluent in as well both of these languages? I did not learn the spelling and the other things or the rules of grammar, etc. I picked up the language first. I was fluent in the language already because it's i'm immersed in it, my parents, i hear it on the tv everywhere, there's that that's my only medium of communication connection to the outside world and then then i go to classes and i refine my you know my Language and learn better words and know the rules of grammar etc. I feel - and you know correct me if i'm wrong, i feel this overhand phases on learn the grammar, the rules, the vocabulary, the spelling, etc, etc. First and then we'll think about the practical, day-to-day use. Um, i think that's doing more more harm than good. What are your thoughts on this totally agree totally agree. It'S totally upside down, it's topsy-turvy um and this used to be the way in the uk um. You know for learning foreign languages. The way i was taught grammar translation method, um audio linguistic method, which is okay, but it was very much you know we learned french. We had to learn about the the the present perfect indicative, the predicate, the determiner all of these labels that you had no idea and then the rules um and it's totally upside down. It really is. I mean i recently tried to explain this in a video about grammar learning grammar that, for me, the process is the opposite. For me, the process is, is about listening to the language, is about listening to the sound and the music and and loving that sound right and then repeating it repeating it. So you you get a chance to practice repeating and then later you can go and look at the grammar and you can go and see. Oh, this grammar helps me understand a bit what i've been saying right. So you start with the communication. You start with the sounds, and then later you look at the the the grammar that can explain things to you and for me that that you see that's the way i learned music. I i learned to play the guitar um. When i was younger. I learned the violin and the guitar. I taught myself the guitar by listening by thinking wow. I want to do that and trying to play it myself and just imitating yeah and then about a year later i went for classes with a teacher and she explained notation musical notation the scales and i went wow. That'S amazing. I know that, but i didn't know it and now i could put the labels to it and that also helped me and it was a cycle of going round and for me that's much better, because if you start with the grammar, you start with a headache and Frustration and it doesn't help yep that is so true, yeah you're, overloaded with rules. You know it's like um, you, theoretically, learning everything that is telling you. This is where you could go wrong. So you already overloaded with information that you know different signals that are gliding up in your head. Oh, am i using this tense correctly here or not, etc. Should i be saying this rather than focusing on conveying that message itself? First and uh, here's the interesting thing! My mom taught english literature for 34 years um at the local college, and that was partly one of the reasons. Well, i picked up the language a little bit ahead of time as compared to my friends in school, but the interesting part was she had these all books of grammar and rules and everything at home. I it never made sense to me. Grammar never made sense to me because i was very confusing, so i would read a lot. I was naturally a very curious person by you know, so i would pick up all these different kinds of books and then, due to all that reading, i got a sense of what is what sounds right and what doesn't sound right. It served me well with a margin of error of about one or two percent, which is human. You know i'm not i'm not running on artificial intelligence here. Right so sure serves you very, very well yeah you, don't you don't need all the labels of grammar and the rules um if you've already internalized them, which clearly you have so you don't need to have to know how to describe it. Grammar is just a way to describe the language right. It'S not the language, it's a way of describing. Thank you. That'S well. So that's a very powerful statement. It'S not the language grammar is not the language right. No, it's it's a way of describing the language. Absolutely simple, as that - and i just want to make a quick shout out to all of the teachers out there, especially the teachers in india - it's not their fault right. They are not to blame for this teaching methodology. If you're, given a classroom of 50 kids or more and you're, given an assessment system of a test that they have to pass, that's based on grammar, of course, the teachers are going to start with the grammar and make sure you know the grammar right. It'S not their fault, it's the system of education and assessment and evaluation that that needs changing. Absolutely assessment needs changing, definitely because it's the same the method, pretty much still the same they're, making innovations here and there now. I think it's radically changing with the new education policy, the nep 2020 uh, which um is talking about cross-disciplinary learning and so on and so forth. A lot of innovation coming there um and still has to be implemented in its entire spirit and letter. So i think, once that happens, um we will move towards more experimentation and learning mediums and rather than just if it's standardized and if it's all fill in the blanks you know and and then students. Naturally, they resort to rote learning, which is not the best way forward for any anything leave a part learning a new language. Rote learning is dangerous. You know, because you're mugging up something that's worked for somebody several years ago with the assumption it will work for you as well in various situations. It doesn't indeed, indeed, you know we speakers, coaches and trainers. We'Ve had to adapt to all these new tools here for to thrive in a virtual medium and suddenly everybody knows how to use zoom and you work with the cat filters and some some of us still struggle, but exactly, and it opens up i'll hold you opportunities. As well i mean education is traditionally something that's very, very, very, very slow to change it's extremely difficult to change um, but i think, as the world is changing, we are going to see slightly quicker changes with innovation, adaptation and hopefully, benefits for language learning in schools. I completely agree to that, and one thing i'd like to say here is to our young viewers, especially, is to take charge of your education as well. Part of it is entrusted to the government and the decision makers and the policy makers, who might not be completely in tune with your future goals, but you are so therefore take charge of your learning process design your own curriculum. What what should you be reading? What should you be watching? Who should you be spending time with so on and so forth? Think about these questions and take charge of it? You know once you finish school and college and or get a job. It'S not the end of learning, that's one, and even when the day is finished, when you're learning for the day is done from with the teachers, you have time to yourself use that time well in order to supplement and try things which perhaps school doesn't allow yeah Yeah absolutely totally agree. I mean the language is not contained in your school book right. The language is much more beyond that. It'S much wider. You have to be looking at other things: uh reading other books, reading poetry and now you're, a big fan of poetry, watching films, engaging with um other kinds of speakers, there's so much more yeah and be proactive. I totally agree. A proactive learner is going to learn more deeply, don't just be passive. Indeed, you talked about poetry and the um. The interesting thing here is this: it did not make make sense to me when i would memorize them back in school or robert frost stopping by woods on a snowy evening uh. But now you know fast forward, uh 30 years from that, and you know you could just if you just pause and reflect it's so deep, it's so profound! You can connect it with the challenges in your own life and it's sort of music, it's poetry in its true sense. It'S not just a set of words that you were memorizing earlier now. The words come alive for you and i think, as your understanding deepens, as your learning deepens, that stage automatically happens. Keith one of your most popular videos on your youtube channel is um interacting with native english speakers now i know this could be a huge challenge. This could be. This could make many new learners, especially nervous about when they're speaking with someone who's a native english speaker and with the world that we're living in that's increasingly global in nature and people interacting, and you know, from all different corners of the world. There'S there's companies now which don't have a single headquarter. They instead have five headquarters across the world in this new, bold global world, where english is the international language of communication by and large what are your top tips with people who, whose first language is not english? In interacting with native english speakers, there's two challenges in particular that are very common. One is um, i know the language well, i can read, write and speak, but when i'm speaking with a native english speaker, i'm certainly at a loss for words, and i and second is sometimes - i cannot understand what they're saying so i maybe we could split it Into two questions: let's begin with this one: first um that self-consciousness or the the um. Suddenly people are at a loss of words when interacting with a native english speaker right. That'S the first aspect, yeah. It'S that loss of words that that confidence to to speak out. I think there are, there are several things going on. One of them is maybe the cultural thing i mean to to communicate effective with effectively with native speakers they're. Not all native speakers aren't the same right, but if you take, for example, american american culture or british culture, the way we talk and do things is different from indian culture or chinese culture or others um right. I think maybe i'm trying to think of an example to show this, but, for example, um i mean maybe i can give an example from me being in china and trying to learn chinese and right the opposite. When i went to china the first time i went to a very small town um, it wasn't beijing and this is 20 years ago. China has changed quite a lot. It'S a very small town and i had learned a very basic um chinese and i'm trying to communicate um and when i was somebody was, was offering me something, and i said i said no thank you and they continued to offer, and i said no thank you And i thought: do they not understand me and they carried on offering and insisting - and i thought something's wrong here and i i tried to say it another way. I said well, no, no, no, i actually i don't. He was offering me a cigarette, i said no. I don't smoke which i'd learn, how to say and he continued and then the cultural thing was what was going on was that in his culture um he when you offer something you offer again and you expect the person to be polite and to say no. So you offer again and again in the british culture when somebody offers when they say no, that's it it's no. It would be rude to offer again right and it it's you know implying, and i think that that connection between language and and culture, the way we do things is, is different and it's important to to try and understand the culture of the language, how people offer, How people invite you know that you've probably had this in england come around for dinner sometime and you go oh. How about tomorrow like no and the person is shocked going? No, no, i didn't actually mean that it's just a polite way, yeah yeah, so yeah. We do that all the time here in india too. We do right, yeah, the same thing yeah, but sometimes the functions can be different. The way you apologize, the way you offer invite the way you accept a gift, the language and the culture are very intricately connected. Um and i think it's important to try and learn well to learn that it's difficult, because you need to practice that and be exposed to it, but to be open to that being different. And going back to what we said before. To be open to the fact that if the native speaker doesn't quite follow what you're saying or doing um don't worry about it, you will find a way to communicate. You will find a way to get through. It may be a cultural misunderstanding and be open to that, so i, i think, yeah, that that aspect of being at a loss for words um, there's something else that comes to mind, and i i think it's again. It comes from social media. The idea that the native speaker is perfect and that everybody should try to be like a native speaker, and i even though i'm a native thinker, i think students should forget that idea, don't try and be like a native speaker. It'S not necessary. It'S not helping you. It'S kind of overwhelming you because it's such a difficult goal to reach that, if you can say, i just want to be a good speaker or an advanced speaker, then that's enough and to the time of take away this. This idea that the native speaker is perfect. It would be like me trying to learn football from ronaldo cristiano and, of course, if, if he comes and tries to teach me i'll be overwhelmed, i won't be able to kick the ball. 