Friends, this is simerjeet, saying live to you from our virtual studio, and this video is about three things: excelling at virtual interviews laying the foundation of a strong career in a vuca world in a volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous world and number three. The mindset principles that you need in order to succeed in this changing dynamic environment. It'S been a tough uh time for everybody. You know during this covet pandemic and um, everybody was thrust into changes and transformations that we never thought we'd be seeing in our lifetimes. But i choose to take an empowering view of what we've been through, and i also choose to take an empowering perspective of what lies ahead of us and i say to you: welcome to a world full of possibilities right. I think alexander graham bell once said when one door closes a hundred others open the problem is we continue to focus on the one door that has closed and we don't look at the hundred other doors that have opened. So i understand, we've all been through challenges, including yours, sincerely. I'Ve been through a lot of challenges, a lot of changes happening in my line of work as well, and a lot of the old doors were shut during this time, but also something very interesting happened. Many new doors opened just like these virtual interactions: virtual interviews, virtual keynotes, so many other exciting things that we were able to do, which perhaps we did not have the where, with all the skills, all the resources earlier, so i say again welcome to a world full Of possibilities - and yes, we all had to face the um challenges that coveted pandemic brought to us. So i went from going uh from live on stages with large audiences, interacting with them mingling with them to sitting in front of these studio lights and sitting in front of my camera and uh, delivering virtual keynotes for our clients across the world. You know doing facebook lives, youtube lives, creating so much so much content over the last two years that we did not uh. So if the content that we've created in the last two years is more than what we were able to create in the last 12 years now you look at that. So that's what i call take taking a more empowering perspective on what's happening right now, dr van dyke used to say when you change the way you look at things the things you're looking at begin to change. When you change the way you look at things. The things you're looking at begin to change so when you start looking at the world and the new economy and what's going on right now from a positive perspective, of course, you're going to find a world full of possibilities. So when? But if you're going to look uh if you're going to be too attached with the way things were and if you're going to be complaining about, you know losing touch or losing your old way of doing things. The results are not going to be very pleasing. So when you change the way you look at things the things you look at begin to change and i hope you take an empowering perspective as far as your career and employment opportunities are concerned, this piece of research is coming from the mckinsey global institute, which says Remote work will also put a dent in business travel, so business travel is going to go down because a lot of it was let's face it unnecessary right, and so now people and corporations have discovered the effectiveness of video meetings. You know people have all these tools. They'Ve been they're used to and they're comfortable with these tools uh, so what virtual interviews are also not new video interviews have been around for a very long time, but what you will feel is that many employers are embracing the sheer convenience and the um. Also the effectiveness of these tools, so they they're here to stay they're here to stay. So let me um capture a few points of how technology is going to impact your careers, not only your interviews and and but also beyond right, so not just getting into the workforce, but also what you do beyond number one. Digital transformations have been accelerated. People who never use technology in their entire lives before and now suddenly become comfortable with digital tools. E-Commerce went up, went through the roof. You know online shopping, so many people discovered millions across the world were first-time e-commerce. Customers during the pandemic same applies with video conferencing tools and meeting tools like microsoft, teams or zoom, and all these other things these were earlier restricted to a niche to a small segment, but now they have they're they're in you know, common use right now and everybody's Aware of how these tools work right from young kids in schools to chief executives of different corporations and we live in a market economy and two things about the market economy number one skills which are rare will be highly paid. So if you are someone who has special skills, which are rare, you can expect to be back in the workforce quickly and also to command a higher salary as compared to other people. But now the second thing about the market economy is: the market. Economy, loves convenience. Okay and that's why disrupters such as taxi aggregators or food delivery, apps or so many other technology and neighbor disruptors have done so well, is just because consumers love convenience may not think about this. If you have a craving for a certain kind of food and before all these food delivery, apps were here, you had to either physically drive there or call their delivery services, which were always not very efficient. Now it's all become integrated into your app and you have so many coupons and so many discounts available. There is convenience, the market economy, loves, convenience and virtual interviews are convenient, so they're here to stay. So if you're a youngster who's in college or university right now and if you're not equipped, if you're not putting your best foot forward, should i say best foot forward or best face forward you're, not entering a door anymore um. But if you're not putting your best forward for your virtual interview right now, chances are your profile may not stand out among several others, so this is no longer a luxury. It'S become a necessity that you must master. The next point is adaptability. My friends is a new super power. Adaptability is the new super power. In fact, this is so important. I want you to type this in in the comments section right now. Adaptability is the new super power. I'M reminded of uh, professor stephen hawking, who said intelligence is, is uh has little to do with your academic credentials, your marks and which university you went to has more to do with your ability to adapt to change right. So your intelligence in this changing world has more to do with your ability to adapt to change, and only those who focus on learning, unlearning and relearning will thrive. Only those who question themselves. What are the new skills i need to acquire in order to succeed in this economy will survive only those who will unlearn the old things which are no longer relevant, will survive and thrive, and only those who have a strong grasp on the core concepts of their Domain, the ones who are relearning the core concepts and are in touch with the core concepts. Those are the ones who would uh thrive in this changing environment, so that's sort of a bird's eye view of the changes that are happening. I want to take you through five, very important um segments. Let'S call them five. I'Ve segmented some information into five categories, and this is how we'll proceed: we'll go with the urgent stuff first and then we'll move to the important ones. So um i'll go in the sequence of that. If we so i'll go with basic housekeeping and what sort of technology you need and then we'll move on to other important things such as your communication skills and your mindset, etc. But if your tech fails on the day of your interview, if you have a, if you have not done your homework, if those sort of things haven't been done properly, then it would make a little difference if you're a good communicator etc, because you won't have the Option to showcase all that so, let's begin with this stuff. That is really urgent and you must look after this, and this is so i'm going in a reverse sequence. My point number five is my point number one. Okay. So, let's begin with number five check: your tech: if you're appearing for a virtual interview check your tech, don't take any chances at all, expect the best but be prepared for the worst. That'S my mantra here as murphy's law goes something like this. What can go wrong? Will go wrong, so you got ta, make sure that you have backup arrangements and you've checked everything properly walk in with the mindset of somebody who's expecting everything to go well but is also prepared with backups in case things go wrong in case power. Disruptions happen in case your internet connectivity is not good. Now we did a survey asking people what are their top concerns when it comes to virtual interviews and the uh top two or three reasons that come to my mind, number one was i'm not comfortable in front of the camera. I fear i will have network issues. I fear we'll have poor audio visual quality. I fear i will not be able to see the reactions of the interviewer and i fear that i will not be in the right frame of mind because i'm in my familiar zone and sitting in my home, so i will not be able to give my best. The same way, i would be giving my best if i would be actually walking into the office of that corporation, so these were some of the concerns, but the interesting thing is all of these. Concerns can be addressed by proper preparation. Let'S talk about your audio visual. First and remember this, my friends, there is no theoretical way to check whether your audio visual is working well or not. Okay, so understand this um, please that the best way to check the quality of your audio visual is what the other person is receiving and the best way to test what the other person is receiving. Is this get a friend or a colleague or a family member to set up a zoom meeting right or microsoft, team meeting or whatever software that you're using on that day and do and record yourself sitting in the same place using the same infrastructure using the same Lighting the same mic, etc and and then go and hear yourself go and check that audio visual quality, which has been received on the other side. Okay - and that is the best and the foolproof way of ensuring that your technology is uh, delivering right that it's enabling you to put your best forward. Camera placement really important, uh some people when they're using webcams. They have it really at a low level. So all you're getting is a focus of the nostrils. You don't want that. It'S not the nostril cam is what i call it: um mic and proximity effect. There is something called the proximity effect when it comes to using mics and which very simply put is this. The closer you are to the mic, the better quality that you get the further away. You are uh the quality drops, because that's how mics function, i would suggest um, i'm. You know i'm sure, for a virtual interview, interview you're, not using something as complicated or as high-end as the sm7b sure right now, but even if you use a decent label mic, your the quality of your audio will improve vastly so consider investing in a label mic Because it will improve the audio quality. Also take a look at the acoustics of the room. You know. Is there a lot of? Is there a lot of upholstery in the room? Is there carpet in the room, because bare walls and bare floors, um they're, going to give you a lot of reverb in the sound? And that's not going to sound very nice on the other side, so choose a room which has a lot of fabric or upholstery or carpets and you'll, get a decent acoustic environment, of course, away from outside sound. That goes without saying, um and when it comes to getting the best out of your camera, i think lighting has a huge role to play so either use daylight if you can, which is a great source, just make sure you're not over exposed you're, not sitting in Direct sunlight or something, but otherwise you can always buy or hire for the day led lights in your city. Right get a freelance photographer to come in for the day. If it's a really important virtual interview - and you know, ask that person how much he's going to charge for just to set up a few led lights for you and help you with the equipment that way, you are delegating the the technical aspect of it to an Expert and you can be free to focus on what is the most important for you now. Another very important aspect is your upload speeds uh when it comes to virtual interviews, uh two or three things. As far as the internet connectivity is concerned, people just look at their download speed on the connection and say fine. You know that looks great, i'm getting 50 megabytes per second or 100 megabytes per second, and that's pretty good. Of course, it's good for decent for downloading, but in a virtual interview, if you're using an hd camera or an or a decent quality microphone. In any case, it's your upload speed that matters more than your download speed, so check the upload speed and get onto a network which is offering you better upload speed and have a separate internet connection as a backup internet connection, whether it's through a mobile device um Or through any other ways, whether it's two connections in the same home or whatever uh ways, you can show that if your main internet connection is not functioning properly, you have a backup arrangement to go to sit close to the modem um. You know you don't sit in too far away from where your wi-fi modem is placed, because the signal quality drops, even if you might be getting a full signal in the other room, but the signal quality will drop. It will not be a good quality signal and therefore it will affect how your video and sound are going towards the other side, so that that was regarding upload speeds, use, lan cables where possible. If your system has a lan cable option, if your modem has a lan cable and if you're able to plug in a lan actual ethernet cable, the connection will be far more reliable than using wi-fi common sense. Basic housekeeping tips here close additional apps on your device. Not only are they distracting, but they will also consume system memory and system resources which you don't want when you are streaming um or appearing for an important virtual interview, keep tested, backup arrangements handy and ask for help lot of people, don't ask for help. They try to be the superhero trying to juggle or between all of these things and single-handedly, and then they end up with a situation where they panic, because they have too much too much on their plate. Now you want to focus on having a good conversation with your future employer so that you're they're able to know about you and you're able to present your best to them. So it's very important that you get help that you ask for help from friends or family or whoever could be your assistant for the day. Disconnect additional devices from the wi-fi make sure you go to every tv screen, every device in the house and if they're logged on and on to the same network, just make sure you log you're logging, everybody off. You don't want people streaming netflix and high resolution, while you're appearing for a virtual interview, that's going to slow the system down now with regards to technology, and i've spent the last few minutes talking about it. This is my closing remark about your tech homework about your check. Your tech invest, but don't obsess okay pay attention to this. Do your best get the resources. Delegate spend your money, do whatever you have to, but don't obsess about it, they're, not hiring your virtual setup. They are hiring you. Technology is an enabler, it's not a substitute, they want to know more about you. They want to hire you your services, your expertise, your experience, your qualification, your skills, your mindset, they're, not hiring your mic, your lights, your background, your home. All of that is irrelevant in the long run, but it's very important in the decision making right, because, if you're someone who comes across as sloppy or not tech friendly or not an individual who pays attention to detail that won't go in your favor right, so invest. But don't obsess remember: technology is an enabler, it's not a substitute for you. You uh, as rumi said, are the honored guests right. Let'S move forward after checking your tech, so counting down from five to four. My number four is: do your homework again. This is basic common sense, but a lot of people skip it. Let me tell you what i mean by it think about the what the when the, where the, why the home, when is my interview? What is it about? Where will i sit, and you know have this virtual interaction? Why am i even applying for this job, or why am i even applying to this company uh? Who is going to be interviewing me? Don'T start stalking them yet don't tell them. I know you were in miami or in goa last week. No, that's creepy! Don'T do that, but if you're able to do a little bit of background research or maybe a linkedin profile check of the person who's going to be interviewing, you that's great. So when it comes to background research, it's common sense that you would be studying about the company, its culture, its values, its its journey and your profile and the job description, but also you do. This is a great opportunity to do a little bit more background. Research about yourself, who am i, what problem-solving skills do i bring to the table and, i specifically say problem-solving skills, because that's what every interview is all about right, you're there to solve a problem right, every job is about solving problems right. A surgeon is solving a problem right. A delivery person is solving a problem, so the more so take this as an opportunity to do some background research about yourself as well. Who am i what skills do i bring to the table? What have i been through? What'S my story, how do my values align with the corporation's values right what's common ground here, and that will help you be more prepared now? As far as your preparation, your homework goes, there is nothing that beats a checklist. Okay, a checklist don't rely on memory, rely on systems and processes and a checklist, a simple checklist. You don't have to create something complicated in excel. Just take a a4 a small piece of paper, something like this and put down got to check the internet connection. I want to ensure nobody else is using the wi-fi or all the other things that we talked about, put them down on a piece of paper and make sure you go through this checklist on your important day, because, if you're overloading your brain with housekeeping things, you're Not going to be relaxed enough to present your very best during the interview, confidence and i'm sure everybody who's listening to this video right now would want to be more confident in virtual interactions and social interactions. Confidence is an outcome. My friends, that's what it is. Confidence is an outcome of preparation and hard work. Confidence. Is that feeling that you're able to experience once you know that you've done your hard work and you've put in the efforts to ensure that nothing whatever goes wrong, i'm still prepared for it. That'S confidence. Okay, so if you want to feel confident on that day, make sure that you have done the homework that you are prepared and once when you're prepared your mind, automatically goes into we'll see what happens. Let'S move forward with it all right and a great tool as far as preparing your answers for virtual interviews is concerned, uh is mind maps. This is a great tool, mind maps are a great tool and we don't have enough time to go through what mind. Mapping is in this video, i'm sure, there's plenty of other good videos on youtube to help you how i use it. I simplify. I take a a4 sheet of paper. I put my main thing in the middle and then i draw a little visual representations of you know. What are the possible directions? I can take that conversation in what are the possible answers i can give when this question comes up. So, let's say tell us about yourself, so i'm going to take a sheet of paper, i'm going to put it right in the middle. Tell us about yourself about me and then i could have a little thing about my hobbies, a little picture or image or text about my previous experience about my college or my university education, about my vision for the future, about my values and what sort of an Individual, i am about the people who have influenced my life about my role models, so i've got more than enough to talk about when that question comes up. Tell us about yourself and that's what mind maps they enable you to do is that you don't have to memorize answers and please don't memorize answers, because then you're going to sound like a automated voice response system, that a lot of banks and other organizations use these Days and it's so frustrating if you ever tried, you know calling one of those banks, and all you get is an automated voice, a pre-recorded voice message and it can really get on your nerves, because you want to talk to a real human being. Therefore, in your interviews, you want to sound like a real human being, so please no scripted memorized answers right. They, the interviewer, has been doing this for a really long time and he's doing he or she is doing it all day long, so they they are going to find out. It'S not going to come across spontaneous and natural, and you don't want to do this. The next point in doing your homework is about problem solving scenarios. The question is very common comes up very often, and i think you should have a strong grasp on it. What were the major problems that you solved in your last job or tell us about a situation where you were stuck uh, where you had a customer problem or you had a team member problem or etc, etc? How did you handle it? What are your takeaways? Every job is about problem solving. In the end, every employer wants to know your problem solving skills, the bigger problems that you can solve, the more money that you can earn in the market economy. They would want to know how good you are at problem solving so keep a few problem. Solving scenarios, handy especially in the form of a mind map, be brief and concise. This is what the problem was. This is what i did to solve it. These are my major takeaways, and this is what i learned in the process that i can apply in future situations. One again, the next one is a basic uh housekeeping thing is about, but often overlooked is not getting enough sleep before your virtual interview or an important virtual conversation, that's happening because you're so excited, or you left your preparation um to the last minute or you left Uh, you did not follow my advice on following the checklist or you know, checking your tech, as the my previous point said, check your tech, all the things about auto, visual and everything. If you, if you left it for the last moment chances are you won't sleep very well, and you don't want that because you you sleep, enables your brain cells to rejuvenate and you know for you to be more creative for you to be in a better mood. The next day you want to get your good seven eight hours of sleep um and therefore it's important that you keep that in your priority list. So, ladies and gentlemen, that was number four segment number four number five was: let's, let's see, let's do a quick recap. Number five was about checking your tech right, which is basic housekeeping as far as technology is concerned. Number four is about a deeper. You know homework about background research, about yourself about your employer, using checklists, mind, maps, problem solving scenarios and, looking after the state of your body through proper food, nutrition, hydration and sleep, and the next one is about inner work. Now we're moving. I said we'll move from the urgent to the important. This is the important stuff. It might not be urgent, but it is very important segment. Number three is inner work before outer results. In fact, this is so important that i want you to type it in the comment section. I will do the inner work first before i expect outer results. I repeat, i will commit to doing the inner work first before i expect outer results. Everybody loves outer results. Outer manifestations of success very few are able to put in the inner work that is required in order to be in that state of mind, to deliver those out of results and remember state of mind. Is everything companies high for mindset for attitude and culture these days and they train you on the skill set? It is a given that you will come in with a certain level of expertise. You will come in with a certain level of skills required for the job and then every organization is going to retrain you a little bit on the skills, but they want to make sure at the outset, right from the start, whether or not you're a good fit For that company's culture, for their values and for their team etc, and this is going to be very important, therefore, along with your academic qualifications, along with your experience and achievements in your previous jobs, etc, etc. It'S important that you work on your mindset also, and i've always believed mindset is sometimes more important than skill set, because i personally know a lot of people who have the skill set, but they don't have the right mindset so they're not able to use that skill Set, i also know know a lot of people who don't have the skill set yet, but they've got the right mindset and they're acquiring the skill set in the process. One of the most powerful tools in um. You know, as far as inner work is concerned is visualization, and i would strongly recommend we'll share the link with you uh in the up on the this side. Here is. I want you to watch that video uh, which is michael phelps and his coach talking about visualization and michael phelps, one of the most decorated olympic athlete, who has some say his his the total number of medals that he has is probably greater than so. The medal tally of so many countries. Okay, this man has been a medal winning machine and he is a huge follower and advocate of uh visualization, and i want you to watch those videos but i'll briefly tell you his main approach to visualization, which is he visualizes? The ideal scenario how he would like things to be he visualizes well, if things go wrong, what is his backup plan so that his mind is fully ready to handle whatever comes his way, i do recommend that you watch those videos. I also highly recommend that you spend time visualizing do doing a visual mental rehearsal of your interview and how it works is to detach yourself is to look at yourself um appearing for that virtual interview right and to see yourself from a distance and to just take A deep breath and inhale and uh exhale as your body relaxes and to just uh end up with this feeling that everything is working very well. So you could probably recap some of those mind maps some of those answers in your mind. You could see yourself smiling having a natural, spontaneous open, creative conversation with the interviewer. You could visualize yourself that your camera and your other things and your lighting and the internet and everything is working, fine and then just be in that state of mind and uh. So it really helps so it's nothing new for you. Your brain is experi has experienced it. You could also - and this is what michael phelps uh uses is. You could also visualize if something goes wrong. How quickly are you able to bounce back and what is your backup in that situation? So i think this. This is really important. The next thing that i want to come on to in in a work before outer results is using neural associative conditioning here's what it means you all must have a song that when you listen to it, you feel good about. You know you're instantly in a good mood. You'Ve listened to that song over and over again, and now your brain has made a connection whenever that song plays boom. If you're in a good mood, so that's near associative conditioning you all must have a perfume. I have a few i've, always worn on stage before i go for a in-person presentation, i used to go for an in-person presentation and when i put on the same perfume for my virtual presentations now my mind is instantly in the same. You know presentation mode so that perfume really helps as funny as it sounds, but this stuff works so wear your favorite suit or your favorite attire. Whatever happens to be where your lucky watch or your this, the fragrance that you like these small things, enable you to be in the right mindset and no i'm not wearing shorts, underneath the suit. You know, dr clothes. For me, the right grooming for me is not about how i appear to other people. It'S all about my state of mind. So if i feel comfortable in bearing shots, i'd do that, but if i i'm wearing shorts and uh, i don't feel that i'm not getting the me feeling it. I'M not me yet without that thing, so don't drop the standards. That'S what i'm trying to say to you: don't just because it's a virtual interview, please don't drop the standards of your grooming and other things because uh it's going to affect your state of mind and you don't want that to happen. So therefore, it's important - this was number three. Ladies and gentlemen, inner work before outer results. Let'S do a quick recap start by checking your tech, the most urgent stuff here. If this goes wrong, everything else flops move on to doing a deeper homework about yourself about your skills, about your profile about the company that you want to be a part of use, mind maps, uh, have problem solving scenarios, handy uh, sleep and other sort of things. Um, your basic looking after your body, your diet, your nutrition and then inner work through visualization uh by maintaining high standards of grooming by being fully ready mentally physically. For your interactive experience for your online experience and also using this time, the preparation time for interviews to develop the right mindset, that's what i mean by inner work before outer results. Let'S move on to segment number two now, which is about communication skills. Right, as i said, the stuff is not urgent, but it's very important deeply important work on your communication skills. 2.0. You see communication. The skills old-fashioned was how how is my handshake right. A lot of folks do get rejected because of a bad handshake or a bad posture when they enter the room, or so many other things, and now it's all changed now. It'S changed to communication skills 2.0 right, which is: are you able to look at the camera lens and the zoom window and all the other technology and the distractions that might be there in the background and still keep eye contact still have a meaningful conversation. Those are communication, skills, 2.0 right, your ability to multitask your ability to look at the camera. Now here's the thing. If i would be having a zoom meeting right now, i would have another zoom window open, which is on my monitor down here and if i'm looking at the person when i'm speaking, i won't be making eye contact. I think i'm making eye contact with him, but i'm breaking eye contact. So what i need to do is to train my mind and is to do enough number of demo tests or mock interviews or whatever it happens, to be to look directly into the camera lens right, maybe put a little sticky note up there do, whatever you have To train yourself to maybe get audio feedback from the person using a headphones which i'm not using right now, because this is not an interactive thing. It'S a recording, but if it were a live interview i would be wearing headphones where i can hear the other person. But to when i'm speaking to the other person to give them direct eye contact, i would be looking straight into the camera lens, okay and that's really important. In order to keep that conversation going, keep in mind, please you're communicating at a visual auditory and verbal level. Everything is important. Your sound is very important, as i said, using the right mic using the right acoustic environment and using the proximity effect to your advantage. These are small things to ensure your voice as per their. Some research is around 37 is about how you say it, how it's sounding when you're saying it 55 percent is visual. What the other person is saying, words are only seven to eight percent. This is what the old the merabian research model is about, but i would still sometimes put voice even more than video, even more than visual, because even if you have some video transmission issues, let's say you have a frozen screen and everybody add, you know, can nobody's An exception i was on a conference the other day. The fast company innovation festival, drew barrymore was one of their keynote speakers and she had some issues with the camera. There was a lag frozen screen, couple of times, etc, etc. So even hollywood celebrities are also not an exception to this, but that apart, you need to keep in mind that even if there be there are some issues with the video transmission. If your sound quality is good, you're still able to retain the attention of the other person, so keep in mind, you're communicating at three levels: visual, auditory and verbal. Of course, you've done the work as far as a verbal level is concerned, you've prepared your answers. You'Ve looked at your mind maps, you probably have a good idea of the job, description and et cetera, et etc, but now it's important as the visual. What the other person is seeing is. Are you giving eye contact or not and also uh what the other person is hearing right? So keep these things in mind, positive posture and facial language? I can't even say body language for virtual interviews, because the camera is not covering your entire body, but so, but it is covering the upper half. So a good posture would be very important. So take a look at this this. This is an upright posture and this is slouching, and you know it's going to make an impact uh after a period of time to your energy level, as well as how you're appearing to the other person, so posture, uh, really important. And once again, what i told you right in the in the beginning about doing test runs with friends again. This comes in very handy to see what your posture looks like on the recording and also whether you're able to make eye contact if you're smiling enough or not. How do you sound, etc? You cannot academic sorry, you cannot theoretically solve this problem. You'Ll have to do a few practical demos to find out so positive posture, official language, very important and friends, be prepared to speak to a black box. This is what i mean is you could have a certain situation where your interviewer is not able to switch on her camera and all you have in front of you on a zoom or a microsoft team meeting is a black box with the name displayed on it. Your video is still on. They perhaps might still expect you to keep your video on. It should not make a difference. Train your brain with sufficient practice sessions that that thing doesn't put you off. I know you'll be missing the human to human interaction because the camera is not on, but you've got to proceed anyway. This might even be a test for some of you. So keep that in mind, please that was that was uh segment number two before i move to the last one um segment number two was working on your communication skills. 2.0. Let me share a quotation by jim rohn, jim rohn, on developing your communication skills. He said. Take advantage of every opportunity to practice your communication skills so that, when important occasions arise, you will have the gift, the style, the sharpness, the clarity and the emotions to affect other people. I love this. I think it's worth repeating. Take advantage of every opportunity to practice and hone and refine your communication skills so that, when the important occasion arises, as in your case, a virtual interview, you will have the gift, the style, the sharpness, the clarity and the emotions to make a positive impact on other People, so let this happen simultaneously, while you are appearing for job interviews and the the final thing, one of my most important takeaways in getting ready for this changing dynamic, bold new world out there is to embrace technology whether you're, i don't care you're in health care. You'Re in sales and marketing, regardless you're a freelancer, your graphic designer, whatever happens to be your, be your calling be your career at the moment, it's important that you fully embrace technology that you're able to incorporate not just existing technologies, but also new technologies that are, that Might be the new tools, new softwares that might be available in your field and the world is changing very, very quickly: it's not an option to say i'm, not tech friendly anymore. So and again this this will benefit you, because i believe, once our neurons are stretched by new challenges and by new tasks, they never go back to the old thing, so you are a brand new you with better skills. You, your virtual interview, i believe, is your opportunity to show that you are future ready. That'S what it is. Your virtual interview is your how you deliver. It is a statement of how tech friendly you are, and this could be a very important parameter for many jobs. Today, uh, maybe it wasn't two years ago, but it will be now in the post-covered world understand that when it comes to making an impact through a virtual interview, small efforts will give you big returns. Let'S say you want to put a zoom background. You want to use a zoom background and if you have a green screen and just one single light on the green screen, your image will appear way better than without a green screen and a green screen costs less than ten dollars or five hundred six hundred rupees. Here in india uh, you know, and you know less than ten dollars in many other parts of the world. It'S it's a small investment that is going to give you a big return. Let'S say: buying a label mic that there's so many options available under 1000 rupees in india and under 20 30 50 dollars in other parts of the world. Using a label mic connected to your laptop is going to really improve the quality of your sound. Sometimes you even have the tools available already if you have a decent headphones pair of headphones with a built-in mic, they have. Some of some of these headphones have very good mics available or even airpods. If you, if you have access to those, are great tools in terms of improving your sound quality, so all i'm trying to say to you is uh. Small efforts will give you big returns as far as the final outcome is concerned, when it comes to embracing technology and getting ready for a book award design, your own curriculum find out what is happening in my field. What are the new skills that might be required that i don't know about at the moment? Where can i learn them from which online resources shall i put together to design my own curriculum, and you know, can i stick to that learning regime religiously, so designing your own curriculum so that you're learning side by side, so learning is not something that happens when Required it's a way of life. Those are the people who will truly succeed in this new environment. In closing my friends, this is what i'd like to say this to you. When it comes to a virtual interview, there are no right or wrong answers. Take this pressure off your shoulders, there's no right or wrong answer. Let'S take take, for example, one of the most frequently asked questions tell us about yourself. They cannot be a right or wrong answer right. There are your answers and that's what matters are your answers? Honed tuned um enriched engaging and informative, and that's that's the question you need to ask yourself so there's no right or wrong answers. They are your answers. Are your answers? Um. Do you? Have you put sufficient effort in in preparing your answers? That'S the question. You should ask instead of asking: did i give the right answer or not? Okay, number. Two don't take rejections personally. The indian school of business hyderabad rejected my mba application many years ago. I didn't take it personally. I went out and i created a video which is called thank you isb for rejecting me. It'S quite a story. I suggest you go watch it it's interesting and um. I don't take it personally. Uh you shouldn't either it's you're not being rejected. It'S just didn't have to work out that way right. So it's not a evaluation of your self-worth. Don'T take rejections personally. The next thing i want you to keep in mind is a positive mindset. Is a huge strategic advantage these days the times that we're currently living in if you're someone with a positive, sunny, pleasant disposition that in itself is a huge competitive advantage over others, so protect it, nurture and develop it by all means. The next one use every interview as a learning experience: okay, after you finish just log off meditate for a while take a few deep breaths in take a pen and paper and write down. If i were to do this again, what would i like to improve? Not in terms of beating yourself up over what i said or what i should have said, no, no, that's not the point um. What are maybe systems, processes and procedures that i could improve in order to have a better outcome outcomes are outcomes of input right. So if you improve the input, uh, religiously and constantly, you will definitely have better outcomes. That'S what you need to keep in mind and, in the end, just two very important things. Remember as they say in nlp, nlp training. One of the found foundation principles is this: there are no failures, there's only feedback. There are no failures, there's only feedback, that's very empowering way to look at life. There are no failures: there's only feedback feedback to get better in the future, breathe and smile and be yourself go out and conquer this bold new world full of possibilities. Thanks for tuning in bye, you 