Good morning, Sir Sir, I am Riya., Sir. My question is `` How to overcome the state of hesitation and gain back the lost confidence. ?'', Wonderful question: I think more than half of the Indians are not able to use their full potential due to hesitation.. It'S one reason: is this: the cultural reason we come from. You know due to the conditioning In the country before the freedom, you were not supposed to ask the questions.. We are in a society which gives a huge emphasis on conformity like teachers call that student, the best who does not asks any question.. So we come from such society due to which hesitation is ingrained in us and for us to achieve success in life. We have to have to remove hesitation., So your question is two parts. No.1. Ria, your question is How to remove or overcome state of hesitation in life, And the second one is How to gain back the lost confidence. So let me ask you, thank you. You may take your seat please.. Let me ask you: Have you ever felt confident in your life Lets say if I have a camera in which certain function is not working, never worked., I will say it needs to go back to the supplier, because this function never worked properly.. But in this case you are saying I felt confident at time and now I don't feel that anymore.. My answer to you is going to be very, very simple.. You have to identify what things brought you into that state of confidence. Right. What are the contributory factors and how can I bring them into my life again? Removing hesitation is a state of mind.. There are certain days when you come to school when you feel all energetic, and you feel good. You are happy. You talk to so many people.. There are certain days when you don't want anyone to talk to you. Right You, the individual, is the same.. You haven't. Changed.. Ria is same human being. Right. What is changed The state of mind., So my answer is this: The altering of the state of mind changes our behaviour., So we have to identify what are the things that make me feel better. How do I feel empowered? This is all an internal process.. How do I work on myself to get back into that state? The second thing that I will recommend to is ``. Take small steps. !'' Take small challenges once again.. Sometimes what happens? Is we commit a small mistake which results into a negative outcome. Lets say one of you participated in a function in which you had to speak something. Did it happened with anyone that you had to speak, something on the stage and all of a sudden you freezed Or forgot what you had to speak? Has that happened Yes. Or you spoke something wrong. People laughed and made fun of you.. They made fun of you that a nickname was made on it.. Other students started teasing you. Done, But you must learn to detach from that. Incident. One happening does not defines you. The cells of human body regenerate.. You know this Our nails after some weeks they are brand new., Our hair they shed and they are brand new.. The cells of skin shed and new skin appears on the human body.. The process is slow at microscopic level. We are not able to see it.. Our body is regenerating itself.. Why not the mind Why we take that imprint on our mind and continue defining ourselves with that incident? That happened two years ago.. So why do you have to meditation? Is a powerful, powerful tool. Sit in meditation. And for me, meditation is nothing but just closing your eyes and focusing on your breathing. And take any one empowering sentence.. Whatever religion you are from whatever God, you worship. Any one. Empowering sentence, one sentence can change your life.. Let me hear it: again. One sentence can change your life, Find that one sentence and repeat it ten times in your mind and then allow it to be a part of your subconscious process and take small challenges once again. Volunteer again, Try it again, Don't quit from The thing in which you had a bad experience. Failure is only when you quit when you stop trying. Until you are trying you are at WIP.. You know what WIP is Work in Progress. Wip is work in progress and don't be ashamed to be a WIP.. So what who was born perfect One or two days ago, I received a message that Sir, I want to speak like you., I said ``. I was not born with a mike in my hand and said helllooo here I am to the nurses. You know. Let me give you a motivational talk.'', Nobody is born. Perfect Problem is that most of the people whom we see have already reached that level by the time they become famous.. Now I just told you today., 11 years ago we sent the first email to MGN, which means 12 years. I have been a motivational speaker.. Somebody will see me now and say: ``. You are a naturally gifted speaker.''. Look at all this Come to my office.. I will show you: we are falling short of space to store my notes.. We don't see the background work., We see the outcome., They say this person is talented.. He is naturally gifted.. I can never do what he can do.. We don't see the process. The hard work, the sacrifices. Once you see the process, do you know what will happen? You will have a aha moment If he can do, then I can also do., And let me say here I was an introvert shy kid in school., Not one of those who would easily go up on stage.. First time I ever went on stage was when I was in grade 8 or something, and that too my legs were shaking.. So it's not like this is my personality. Type.. No, If you understand the process behind becoming something You identify that process and you go continue walking on that road. Your results cannot stay away from you. Hesitation is just fear.. What is hesitation, It is fear. Fear of all the negative outcomes happening in your mind.. If I ask one of you to come here right now and talk about something, the first thoughts that are going to cross your minds are all negative.. I am gon na fall. I am gon na trip, everybody gon na laugh Right. Words will not come in my mind. All negative, Yes or no. Remember this by default. Mind will think negative.. If you will leave this machine, this most powerful machine in the world. If you will not control it, what is going to happen? It will go towards the negative. Lets say you see these tiles on the roof. Everybody look at the tiles on the roof., The camera as well. We can have a shot of the tiles on the roof.. They are like, maybe 200 of them, and every single square has a tile.. Yes Lets say one of the tiles would be missing. And when we look up at the roof, what is the first thing we will see? What is the first thing that will come in our mind, Missing tile, Then what we do we do generalization.. What we do. Generalization Country's situation is like this only.. What connection one missing tile has with the rest of the country We generalize. We take one isolated incident and then generalize it.. What will happen then? Then another person like you will come with you.. Yes, I know this is the situation of the country. That is why I am going to Canada. What will happen. Then A group will come together. Yes or no Ok, this group is very dangerous. Ria. You know why, Because all of them think alike - and they will not let any other opinion enter among them.. If you go to them and say `` India is going to be superpower.', They will say `` Come. I will make you see the pits on the roads.''. Can you see this? He will convince you. After sometime. You will think that maybe I am wrong., He is right.. You get the point So which group you belong to. Hesitation is fear, so you have to have the courage to believe in your own convictions in your own thoughts.. Have the conviction to believe in yourself and then step forward and be comfortable with mistakes.. Our culture does not encourage mistakes., Sorry to say this. I am in school., I often go to school and share such thoughts that they don't call me again., But I am also stubborn.. At least they called me once today. I will speak what I want to speak.. Our education system does not encourage to commit mistakes.. We penalize mistakes., We see mistakes with an evil eye.. We ask for perfection very soon and in very high quantities, which is to a robotic.. That is why Indians are like robots working in the big tech firms of the world and their CEO's come wearing T-shirts, jeans and sneakers, and they are multi billionaires.. We go there and say ``. Yes, Sir !''. Why? Because we have been taught. Stay between the lines. Colour between the lines., If it's a drawing test, they don't say `` Child. Take this blank paper. Take this crayon and draw what you can draw.''. No, They say ``, It's a drawing test.. We have made a template for you.'', Take this crayon.. They have written on the top of the sheet to colour red in the red area and green in the green area.. If a little bit of colour goes out of the picture, then they fail the child.. Imagine Leonardo Da Vinci and other big painters. If Van Gogh or Picasso would have been asked to do as directed. Otherwise you will be failed.. You have to stand up after falling over and over again, because these stumbles will only teach you how to walk.. We have to understand this. Welcome failure, Welcome embarrassment; They give you chance to correct yourself. 