Let'S move on to the next question of the day from the enthusiastic young students here at GNA University School of Hospitality.. Good morning, sir, My name is Nikhil Vaid.. My question is ``. How can I improve my communication skills to become successful, ?'' Fantastic? We can call this communication skills part-2.. Already many of you have seen a few videos. We have put out already about how to develop your English speaking skills, not improve your communication skills.. I also clarified they're, two very different things., The ability to speak English, foreign language.. The ability to communicate well are two very different skills.. Now we're specifically moving into how do I communicate better, of course, that will involve a little bit about how you improve your English language skills also, but my focus will primarily remain on how to help you become a better communicator.. Thank you. Please take a seat, Quick question: how many of you feel your communication skills need a lot of improvement, Raise your hands. Please A lot of improvement, Great. How many of you believe, if you improve your communication skills, you improve your chances of success in life., Raise your hands and that's my first thing here. Good communication skills are a differentiatiater. I don't hear you Differentiater, Which means what, if you walk into an interview? Room. You and another person with the same set of skills In experienced same University, you went to same professors, taught you everything is the same. Person A is able to express his or her ideas better than you can., Whose gone a win. This game Person A? How? Many people do, we know who have wonderful ideas, great information, but they cannot express it well enough. You know someone like that. We all do Do they gain due to this, or do they suffer suffer a lot because so many exciting things coming into their head and they can't express them clearly What communication skills are a differentiator, Which means all things remaining equal Everybody out loud. Please All things remaining equal Human communication skills can set you apart from other people. What does it make sense to work on them? Do you believe that we get results based on our priorities? Yes or No? If my priority is friends Number one, my whole life will revolve around my friends. Everything I will do will depend upon what my friends are doing. Right. If my priority is academic success., I will always going to be busy in studying the books when the exam are happening.. If my priority is health and fitness., I will watch what I will eat. Yes or No. Yes, I will go to the gym every day.. I will exercise.I will play sports. It'S my priority.. If my priority is developing my communication skills., There is no force in the world that can stop. You must understand. Valuate your priorities., Whatever you're getting in life, is based on your priorities. You tell me your top three priorities.. I can tell you how your life is right now. The results that you get from life are based on your priorities. You want to change your life, Yes or No. Yes, Change your priorities. I can't do everything I can't give equal.. It raises to everything The top two or three things That you're obsessed about Those things you will achieve. There's no force in the world that can stop you from that. .The next thing for you to understand all this journey of becoming a better communicator From this journey of being able to influence other people is to understand.It is something which can have major impact.. Communication is something which can have major impact., As someone's words ever made. You cry. Yes or No. Yes, Someone's word ever made. You laugh Yes or No. Yes, Someone's word ever made you emotional It made. You think they motivate you Inspire. You Words have power. People vote for a certain candidate because he or she was convincing, was able to deliver. A good speech was able to convince the crowd. You watch. An actor was able to touch your emotions Right. You laugh at a comedian's joke was able to connect with you and make your mind. You know go into that state of humor and laughter. Right Words and communication. They have a lot of power wrong. Inaccurate communication can lead to disasters.. Airplane crashes can happen when the pilot and the copilot don't talk to each other, so much evidence around this. Right companies can go bankrupt. If the leadership is not if people are not talking to each other. Different departments that they keep fighting. Homes can fall apart. If there is wrong communication, right. Communication is a lot of impact.. Even one alphabet missing in a in a text message Can create a lot of problem for you.. I heard the story of a young man.Who was sent to go for his a company's annual conference right and he really loved that resort.Once. He checked in, he opened the windows. Beautiful scenery outside, so he was so excited to share this with his wife. He sent a text message back home, very, very fast.. You know he typed in. I wish you were here. Since he was in such a rush.. He forgot to put in the last E and here a huge problem explaining to his wife one alphabet missing in the age of emoticons.You know Smiley's. You know you guys, don't laugh anymore, because you will LOL You're, not actually laughing. You are lolling and emoticons.. Emoticons can change the way you feel Yes or No. Yes, You ever have that whatsapp conversation with someone. You get like the emoticon, the one., That's you're, really looking for any digital hug.You like It changes your emotions. We human beings are emotional creatures, Yes or No. Yes, All you're getting is the yellow face. Two arm stretched out.. You are wheeling or mushy mushy warm that side right.. This is really important that you also have to understand.. You are abbreviated lot of stuff.. Your generation is abbreviating a lot of stuff.. What are these new privations coming in TTYL.? What'S this ttyl, I didn't know this existed until my niece she's not typing, on the phone: okay, Mamu, Oh TTYL, so what the hell is TTYL. I have talked to you later. Right, there's so much and the problem. One of the mistakes. You're making is you think the digital world and the real world are the same. You bring in these abbreviations and I've seen youngsters typing in applications writing ttyl in emails or in official communication.. You have to understand that communication. You have to pay attention. The digital world and the real world are not the same.We. Human beings are emotional beings.. Every single thing is having impression on us.Facial expressions. Do they make a difference? Yes or No? Yes, It's not what you say. It'S how you say: it. There's some people are always complaining.. I don't know why everybody is having an argument with me. Why everybody is calling me a problem. Person., I'm a nice guy.. I end up having a fight with everyone.. I tell this person it's not about what you say., It's how you say: it. When you say it., It's the timing., It's a voice, tone., It's a facial expression.That is these things, have a lot of impact.Understand regional differences when you're communicating, because communication has a lot of Impact.When, I was in Australia, so in India we often say this right when somebody dies., When you say this person expired in this year.. We say this very common right.. He expired. So I told one of my friends in Australia talking about somebody else. Oh his dad. Expired. We were in a bar and he had his mouthful with this drink. He's like expired.. What do you mean? Was he a medicine? You mean passed away or died.Right, but it's just. This is what we say here, and every region has his own way of saying things. For example, in India we call it a rubber in the United States, they call it an eraser.If. You ever travel to the US. Don'T ask your students, your fellow students, asking them for a rubber.. That means something else Ask them for an eraser.Instead. If you are sitting in a classroom of hundred people and you're asking, can I borrow your rubber? Please You're gone a have a lot of people laughing at you, because that has an entirely different meaning in that region. Understand regional differences, regardless of the language.. Let me repeat this again and again.It's: not only the English language., It is even in vernacular or even in regional languages, even in Hindi, even in Punjabi, for example, we speak them in one part of the state or one part of the country to another are going To be vastly vastly different right., You gaining something using your communication. Skills. Number one to understand., It can set you apart.Yes right Number. Two to understand. Communication has power.Why. Don'T we repeat this? We share these two messages with people sitting next to us., Shake someone's hand on your right or left with a smile, Look them in the eye and remind them Communication. Skill set you apart. Number two communication has power Number three say it again. Don'T expect spoon-feeding. Reason why i say that we put out a video on how to improve English speaking skills.. Okay, We give them five steps.. It is this person writing in the comment box, sir. Please give me some tips on how to improve English skills. You're too old. Now, for somebody to come and spoon feed, you., That's step one Step two that is step three Grown up, You're grown up now You have to understand that I have to take charge of this process and there are no shortcuts. There is no shortcut to weight loss. You see all these ads Shortcuts don't exist. Okay, You see all these ads, which say, sir. We will help you lose weight in five days.. Neither can you lose weight in five days, Nor can you learn or master a foreign language in five days. Let us be very clear about that. It takes a lot longer Than that. You get this point Yes, so I understand there are no shortcuts Understand. No one is going to come. Spoon-Feed me understand, no one is going to come and rescue me.That. I must learn to rescue myself. That I must take charge of my learning process.. I must find the resources. It's very important for you to understand the four parts., What the four different stages of mastering anything be acommunication skills or be it driving.. How many of you in this room can drive a car, Raise your hands please or a two-wheeler right, and we will talk about I'll, draw a parallel between learning. How to dry an automobile and communication scales. Yeah. You have to go through four different stages.. There are no shortcuts, but we will do it in the part two of this session here.. Thank you. So much 